FALLEN WARRIOR
and which was broken at last by Mrs. Weasley.
"Where's Hedwig, Harry?" she said coaxingly. "We can put
her up with Pigwidgeon and giver her something to eat."
His insides clenched like a fist. He could not tell her the truth.
He drank the last of his firewhisky to avoid answering.
"Wait till it gets out yeh did it again, Harry," said Hagrid.
"Escaped him, fought him off when he was right on top of yeh!"
"It wasn't me,” said Harry flatly. “It was my wand. My wand
acted of its own accord."
After a few moments, Hermione said gently, “But that's impos-
sible, Harry. You mean that you did magic without meaning to,
you reacted instinctively."
"No," said Harry. "The bike was falling. I couldn't have told
you where Voldemort was, but my wand spun in my hand and
found him and shot a spell at him, and it wasn't even a spell I
recognized. I've never made gold flames appear before."
"Often," said Mr. Weasley, "when you're in a pressured situa-
tion you can often produce magic you've never dreamed of. Small
children often find, before they're trained
,,
"It wasn't like that," said Harry, through gritted teeth. His car
was burning. He felt angry and frustrated; he hated the idea that
they were all imagining him to have power to match Voldemort's.
No one said anything. He knew that they did not believe him.
Now that he came to think of it, he had never heard of a wand
performing magic on its own before.
His scar seared with pain; it was all he could do not to moan
aloud. Mutter about fresh air, he set his glass down and left the
room.
As he crossed the dark yard, the great skeletal thestral looked
83
CHAPTER 5
up, rustled its enormous batlike wings, then resumed its grazing.
Harry stopped at the gate into the garden, staring out at its over-
grown plants, rubbing his pounding forehead and thinking of Dum-
bledore.
Dumbledore would have believed him, he knew it. Dumbledore
would have known how and why Harry's wand had acted indepen-
dently, because Dumbledore always had the answers; he had known
about wands, had explained to Harry the strange connection that
existed between his wand and Voldemort's.... But Dumbledore,
like Mad-Eye, like Sirius, like his parents, like his poor owl, all
were gone where Harry could never talk to them again. He felt a
burning in his throat that had nothing to do with firewhisky....
And then, out of nowhere, the pain in his scar peaked. As he
clutched his forehead and closed his eyes, a voice screamed inside
his head.
"You told me the problem would be solved by using another's
wand!"
And into his mind burst the vision of an emaciated old man
lying in rags upon a stone floor, screaming, a horrible, drawn-out
scream, a scream of unendurable agony....
"No! No! I beg you, I beg you.
"
"You lied to Lord Voldemort, Ollivander!"
"I did not... .
I swear I did not....”
"You sought to help Potter, to help him escape me!"
"I swear I did not.... I believed a different wand would
work...."
“Explain, then, what happened. Lucius's wand is destroyed!"
"I cannot understand.... The connection ... exists only .. be-
tween your two wands....”
84
"Lies!"
FALLEN WARRIOR
"Please....I beg you...."
And Harry saw the white hand raise its wand and felt Volde-
mort's surge of vicious anger, saw the frail old man on the floor
writhe in agony
"Harry?"
It was over as quickly as it had come: Harry stood shaking in
the darkness, clutching the gate into the garden, his heart racing,
his scar still tingling. It was several moments before he realized
that Ron and Hermione were at his side.
"Harry, come back in the house,” Hermione whispered. “You
aren't still thinking of leaving?"
"Yeah, you've got to stay, mate," said Ron, thumping Harry on
the back.
"Are you all right?" Hermione asked, close enough now to look
into Harry's face. "You look awful!"
"Well," said Harry shakily, “I probably look better than Olli-
vander...."
When he had finished telling them what he had seen, Ron looked
appalled, but Hermione downright terrified.
"But it was supposed to have stopped! Your scar- it wasn't
supposed to do this anymore! You mustn't let that connection
open up again—Dumbledore wanted you to close your mind!"
When he did not reply, she gripped his arm.
"Harry, he's taking over the Ministry and the newspapers and
half the Wizarding world! Don't let him inside your head too!"
85
95
Chapter 6
The Ghoul in Pajamas
T
he shock of losing Mad-Eye hung over the house in
the days that followed; Harry kept expecting to see
him stumping in through the back door like the other
Order members, who passed in and out to relay news.
Harry felt that nothing but action would assuage his feelings of
guilt and grief and that he ought to set out on his mission to find
and destroy Horcruxes as soon as possible.
"Well, you can't do anything about the". -Ron mouthed the
word Horcruxes- "till you're seventeen. You've still got the Trace
on you. And we can plan here as well as anywhere, can't we? Or,"
he dropped his voice to a whisper, "d'you reckon you already know
where the You-Know-Whats are?"
"No," Harry admitted.
"I think Hermione's been doing a bit of research," said Ron.
"She said she was saving it for when you got here."
They were sitting at the breakfast table; Mr. Weasley and Bill
had just left for work. Mrs. Weasley had gone upstairs to wake
86
THE GHOUL IN PAJAMAS
Hermione and Ginny, while Fleur had drifted off to take a bath.
"The Trace'll break on the thirty-first," said Harry.
means I only need to stay here four days. Then I can
"
“That
"Five days," Ron corrected him firmly. "We've got to stay for
the wedding. They'll kill us if we miss it."
Harry understood "they" to mean Fleur and Mrs. Weasley.
"It's one extra day," said Ron, when Harry looked mutinous.
"Don't they realize how important-?"
669
"Course they don't," said Ron. "They haven't got a clue. And
now you mention it, I want to talk to you about that."
Ron glanced toward the door into the hall to check that Mrs.
Weasley was not returning yet, then leaned in closer to Harry.
"Mum's been trying to get it out of Hermione and me. What
we're off to do. She'll try you next, so brace yourself. Dad and
Lupin've both asked us as well, but when we said Dumbledore
told you not to tell anyone except us, they dropped it. Not Mum,
though. She's determined."
Ron's prediction came true within hours. Shortly before lunch,
Mrs. Weasley detached Harry from the others by asking him to
help identify a lone man's sock that she thought might've come out
of his rucksack. Once she had him cornered in the tiny scullery off
the kitchen, she started.
"Ron and Hermione seem to think that the three of you are
dropping out of Hogwarts," she began in a light, casual tone.
“Oh," said Harry. “Well, yeah. We are."
The mangle turned of its own accord in a corner, wringing out
what looked like one of Mr. Weasley's vests.
"May I ask why you are abandoning your education?" said Mrs.
87
CHAPTER 6
Weasley.
"Well, Dumbledore left me ... stuff to do," mumbled Harry.
"Ron and Hermione know about it, and they want to come too."
"What sort of 'stuff'?”
"I'm sorry, I can't—”
“Well, frankly I think Arthur and I have a right to know and
I'm sure Mr. and Mrs. Granger would agree!" said Mrs. Weasley.
Harry had been afraid of the "concerned parent" attack. He forced
himself to look directly into her eyes, noticing as he did that they
were precisely the same shade of brown as Ginny's. This did not
help.
"Dumbledore didn't want anyone else to know, Mrs. Weasley.
I'm sorry, Ron and Hermione don't have to come, it's their choice-
,,
“I don't see that you have to go either!” she snapped, dropping
all pretense now. "You're barely of age, any of you! It's utter
nonsense, if Dumbledore needed work doing, he had the whole
Order at his command! Harry, you must have misunderstood him.
Probably he was telling you something he wanted done, and you
took it to mean that he wanted you-
,,
"I didn't misunderstand," said Harry flatly. "It's got to be me."
He handed her back the single stock he was supposed to be
identifying, which was patterned with golden bulrushes.
"And that's not mine, I don't support Puddlemere United."
"Oh, of course not," said Mrs. Weasley with a sudden and
rather unnerving return to her casual tone. “I should have real-
ized. Well, Harry, while we've still got you here, you won't mind
helping with the preparations for Bill and Fleur's wedding, will
88
THE GHOUL IN PAJAMAS
you? There's still so much to do."
"No I of course not," said Harry, disconcerted by this sud-
den change of subject.
"Sweet of you,” she replied, and she smiled as she left the
scullery.
From that moment on, Mrs. Weasley keep Harry, Ron, and Her-
mione so busy with preparations for the wedding that they hardly
had any time to think. The kindest explanation of this behavior
would have been that Mrs. Weasley wanted to distract them all
from thoughts of Mad-Eye and the terrors of their recent journey.
After two days of nonstop cutlery cleaning, of color-matching fa-
vors, ribbons, and flowers, of de-gnoming the garden and helping
Mrs. Weasley cook vast batches of canapés, however, Harry started
to suspect her of a different motive. All the jobs she handed out
seems to keep him, Ron, and Hermione away from one another;
he had not had a chance to speak to the two of them alone since
the first night, when he had told them about Voldemort torturing
Ollivander.
"I think Mum thinks that if she can stop the three of you getting
together and planning, she'll be able to delay your leaving," Ginny
told Harry in an undertone, as they laid the table for dinner on
the third night of his stay.
"And then what does she think's going to happen?" Harry mut-
tered. "Someone else might kill off Voldemort while she's holding
us here making vol-au-vents?"
He had spoken without thinking, and saw Ginny's face whiten.
"So it's true?" She said, "That's what you're trying to do?"
"I-not- I was joking," said Harry evasively.
89
CHAPTER 6
They stared at each other, and there was something more than
shock in Ginny's expression. Suddenly Harry became aware that
this was the first time that he had been alone with her since their
stolen hours in secluded corners of the Hogwarts grounds. He was
sure she was remembering them too. Both of them jumped as the
door opened, and Mr. Weasley, Kingsley, and Bill walked in.
They were often joined by other Order members for dinner now,
because the Burrow had replaced number twelve, Grimmauld Place
as the headquarters. Mr. Weasley had explained that after the
death of Dumbledore, their Secret-Keeper, each of the people to
whom Dumbledore had confided Grimmauld Place's location had
become a Secret People in turn.
"And as there are around twenty of us, that greatly dilutes the
power of the Fidelius Charm. Twenty times as many opportunities
for the Death Eaters to get the secret out of somebody. We can't
expect it to hold much longer."
"But surely Snape will have told the Death Eaters the address
by now?" asked Harry.
"Well, Mad-Eye set up a couple of curses against Snape in case
he turns up there again. We hope they'll be strong enough both
to keep him out and to bind his tongue if he tries to talk about
the place, but we can't be sure. It would have been insane to keep
using the place as headquarters now that its protection has become
so shaky."
The kitchen was so crowded that evening was difficult to ma-
neuver knives and forks. Harry found himself crammed beside
Ginny; the unsaid things that had just passed between them made
him wish they had been separated by a few more people. He was
90
THE GHOUL IN PAJAMAS
trying to hard to avoid brushing her arm he could barely cut his
chicken.
"No news about Mad-Eye?” Harry asked Bill.
"Nothing,” replied Bill.
They had not been able to hold a funeral for Moody, because
Bill and Lupin had failed to recover his body. It had been difficult
to know where he might have fallen, given the darkness and the
confusion of the battle.
"The Daily Prophet hasn't said a word about him dying or
about finding the body," Bill went on. "But that doesn't mean
much. It's keeping a lot quiet these days.".
"And they still haven't called a hearing about all the underage
magic I used escaping the Death Eaters?” Harry called across the
table to Mr. Weasley, who shook his head.
"Because they know I had no choice or because they don't want
me to tell the world Voldemort attacked me?” “The latter, I think.
Scrimgeour doesn't want to admit that You-Know-Who is as pow-
erful as he is, nor that Azkaban's seen a mass breakout.”
"Yeah, why tell the public the truth?" said Harry, clenching his
knife so tightly that the faint scars on the back of his right hand
stood out, white against his skin: I must not tell lies.
"Isn't anyone at the Ministry prepared to stand up to him?"
asked Ron angrily.
"Of course, Ron, but people are terrified.” Mr. Weasley replied,
"terrified that they will be next to disappear, their children the
next to be attacked! There are nasty rumors going around; I for
one don't believe the Muggle Studies professor at Hogwarts re-
signed. She hasn't been seen for weeks now. Meanwhile Scrim-
91
CHAPTER 6
geour remains shut up in his office all day. I just hope he's working
on a plan. There was a pause in which Mrs. Weasley magicked her
empty plates onto the work surface and served apple tart.
"We must decide 'ow you will be disguised,'Arry," said Fleur,
once everyone had pudding. “For ze wedding," she added, when he
looked confused. “Of course, none of our guests are Death Eaters,
but we cannot guarantee zat zey will not let something slip after
zey 'ave 'ad champagne."
From this, Harry gathered that she still suspected Hagrid.
"Yes, good point,” said Mrs. Weasley from the top of the table,
where she sat, spectacles perched on the end of her nose, scanning
an immense list of jobs that she had scribbled on a very long piece
of parchment. "Now, Ron, have you cleaned out your room yet?”
"Why?" exclaimed Ron, slamming his spoon down and glaring
at his mother. "Why does my room have to be cleaned out? Harry
and I are both fine with it the way it is!"
"We are holding your brother's wedding here in a few days'
time, young man
"
"And are they getting married in my bedroom?” asked Ron
furiously. "No! So why in the name of Merlin's saggy left="
“Don't you talk to your mother like that,” said Mr. Weasley
firmly, "And do as you're told."
Ron scowled at both his parents, then picked up his spoon and
attacked the last few mouthfuls of his apple tart.
"I can help, some of it's my mess." Harry told Ron, but Mrs.
Weasley cut across him.
"No, Harry, dear, I'd much rather you helped Arthur muck out
the chickens, and Hermione, I'd be ever so grateful if you'd change
92
