NUMBER
TWELVE,
GRIM MAULD PLACE
biding their time until you're expelled, then they're really going to go
to town I mean, if you're expelled, obviously," she went on hastily,
"you really shouldn't be, not if they abide by their own laws, there's no
-
case against you."
"
They were back on the hearing and Harry did not want to think
about it. He cast around for another change of subject, but was saved
the necessity of finding one by the sound of footsteps coming up the
stairs.
“Uh-oh.”
Fred gave the Extendable Ear a hearty tug; there was another loud
crack and he and George vanished. Seconds later, Mrs. Weasley ap-
peared in the bedroom doorway.
"The meeting's over, you can come down and have dinner now,
everyone's dying to see you, Harry. And who's left all those Dung-
bombs outside the kitchen door?"
"Crookshanks," said Ginny unblushingly. "He loves playing with
them.”
"Oh," said Mrs. Weasley, “I thought it might have been Kreacher,
he keeps doing odd things like that. Now don't forget to keep your
voices down in the hall. Ginny, your hands are filthy, what have you
been doing? Go and wash them before dinner, please. ...”
Ginny grimaced at the others and followed her mother out of the
room, leaving Harry alone with Ron and Hermione again. Both of
them were watching him apprehensively, as though they feared that he
would start shouting again now that everyone else had
The sight
gone.
of them looking so nervous made him feel slightly ashamed.
"Look..." he muttered, but Ron shook his head, and Hermione
said quietly, "We knew you'd be angry, Harry, we really don't blame
you, but you've got to understand, we did try and persuade Dumble-
dore-
دو
"Yeah, I know," said Harry grudgingly.
* 75 *
CHAPTER FOUR
He cast around for a topic to change the subject from Dumble-
very thought of him made Harry's insides burn with
dore the
-
anger again.
"Who's Kreacher?” he asked.
"The house-elf who lives here," said Ron. "Nutter. Never met one
like him."
Hermione frowned at Ron.
"He's not a nutter, Ron
دو
"His life's ambition is to have his head cut off and stuck up on a
plaque just like his mother," said Ron irritably. “Is that normal,
Hermione?"
"Well — well, if he is a bit strange, it's not his fault -’
-
Ron rolled his eyes at Harry.
"Hermione still hasn't given up on spew
وو
"
"It's not 'spew!" said Hermione heatedly. "It's the Society for the
Promotion of Elfish Welfare, and it's not just me, Dumbledore says we
should be kind to Kreacher too
دو
"Yeah, yeah," said Ron. “C'mon, I'm starving."
He led the way out of the door and onto the landing, but before
they could descend the stairs — “Hold it!" Ron breathed, flinging out
an arm to stop Harry and Hermione walking any farther. “They're
still in the hall, we might be able to hear something
"
The three of them looked cautiously over the banisters. The gloomy
hallway below was packed with witches and wizards, including all of
Harry's guard. They were whispering excitedly together. In the very
center of the group Harry saw the dark, greasy-haired head and promi-
nent nose of his least favorite teacher at Hogwarts, Professor Snape.
Harry leaned farther over the banisters. He was very interested in what
Snape was doing for the Order of the Phoenix. . . .
A thin piece of flesh-colored string descended in front of Harry's
eyes. Looking up he saw Fred and George on the landing above, cau-
tiously lowering the Extendable Ear toward the dark knot of people
* 76 *
NUMBER
TWELVE,
GRIM MAULD PLACE
below. A moment later, however, they began to move toward the front
door and out of sight.
"Dammit," Harry heard Fred whisper, as he hoisted the Extendable
Ear back up again.
They heard the front door open and then close.
"Snape never eats here," Ron told Harry quietly. "Thank God.
C'mon."
"And don't forget to keep your voice down in the hall, Harry,"
Hermione whispered.
As they passed the row of house-elf heads on the wall they saw
Lupin, Mrs. Weasley, and Tonks at the front door, magically sealing its
many locks and bolts behind those who had just left.
"We're eating down in the kitchen," Mrs. Weasley whispered,
meeting them at the bottom of the stairs. "Harry, dear, if you'll just
tiptoe across the hall, it's through this door here-
her.
CRASH.
"
"Tonks!” cried Mrs. Weasley exasperatedly, turning to look behind.
“I'm sorry!” wailed Tonks, who was lying flat on the floor. “It's that
stupid umbrella stand, that's the second time I've tripped over —"
But the rest of her words were drowned by a horrible, earsplitting,
bloodcurdling screech.
The moth-eaten velvet curtains Harry had passed earlier had flown
apart, but there was no door behind them. For a split second, Harry
thought he was looking through a window, a window behind which
an old woman in a black cap was screaming and screaming as though
she was being tortured — then he realized it was simply a life-size por-
trait, but the most realistic, and the most unpleasant, he had ever seen
in his life.
The old woman was drooling, her eyes were rolling, the yellowing,
skin of her face stretched taut as she screamed, and all along the hall
behind them, the other portraits awoke and began to yell too, so that
* 77 ⭑
CHAPTER FOUR
Harry actually screwed up his eyes at the noise and clapped his hands
over his ears.
Lupin and Mrs. Weasley darted forward and tried to tug the cur-
tains shut over the old woman, but they would not close and she
screeched louder than ever, brandishing clawed hands as though try-
ing to tear at their faces.
"Filth! Scum! By-products of dirt and vileness! Half-breeds, mutants,
freaks, begone from this place! How dare you befoul the house of my
fathers
وو
Tonks apologized over and over again, at the same time dragging
the huge, heavy troll's leg back off the floor. Mrs. Weasley abandoned
the attempt to close the curtains and hurried up and down the hall,
Stunning all the other portraits with her wand. Then a man with long
black hair came charging out of a door facing Harry.
"Shut up, you horrible old hag, shut UP!" he roared, seizing the
curtain Mrs. Weasley had abandoned.
The old woman's face blanched.
"Yoooou!" she howled, her eyes popping at the sight of the man.
"Blood traitor, abomination, shame of my flesh!"
—
“I said shut UP!" roared the man, and with a stupendous ef-
fort he and Lupin managed to force the curtains closed again.
The old woman's screeches died and an echoing silence fell.
Panting slightly and sweeping his long dark hair out of his eyes,
Harry's godfather, Sirius, turned to face him.
“Hello, Harry,” he said grimly, “I see you've met my mother.”
* 78 *
CHAPTER FIVE
THE ORDER OF
THE PHOENIX
Y
our - ?”
-
"My dear old mum, yeah,” said Sirius. “We've been trying
to get her down for a month but we think she put a Permanent Stick-
ing Charm on the back of the canvas. Let's get downstairs, quick,
before they all wake up again.’
"
"But what's a portrait of your mother doing here?" Harry asked,
bewildered, as they went through the door from the hall and led the
way down a flight of narrow stone steps, the others just behind them.
"Hasn't anyone told you? This was my parents' house,” said Sirius.
“But I'm the last Black left, so it's mine now. I offered it to Dumbledore
for headquarters about the only useful thing I've been able to do."
Harry, who had expected a better welcome, noted how hard and
bitter Sirius's voice sounded. He followed his godfather to the bottom
of the stairs and through a door leading into the basement kitchen.
-
It was scarcely less gloomy than the hall above, a cavernous room
with rough stone walls. Most of the light was coming from a large fire
at the far end of the room. A haze of pipe smoke hung in the air like
battle fumes, through which loomed the menacing shapes of heavy
★ 79 ✶
CHAPTER FIVE
iron pots and pans hanging from the dark ceiling. Many chairs had
been crammed into the room for the meeting and a long wooden table
stood in the middle of the room, littered with rolls of parchment, gob-
lets, empty wine bottles, and a heap of what appeared to be rags. Mr.
Weasley and his eldest son, Bill, were talking quietly with their heads
together at the end of the table.
Mrs. Weasley cleared her throat. Her husband, a thin, balding, red-
haired man, who wore horn-rimmed glasses, looked around and
jumped to his feet.
"Harry!" Mr. Weasley said, hurrying forward to greet him and
shaking his hand vigorously. “Good to see you!"
Over his shoulder Harry saw Bill, who still wore his long hair in a
ponytail, hastily rolling up the lengths of parchment left on the table.
"Journey all right, Harry?” Bill called, trying to gather up twelve
scrolls at once. "Mad-Eye didn't make you come via Greenland,
then?”
"He tried," said Tonks, striding over to help Bill and immediately
sending a candle toppling onto the last piece of parchment. “Oh
no
-
sorry
دو
"Here, dear," said Mrs. Weasley, sounding exasperated, and she re-
paired the parchment with a wave of her wand: In the flash of light
caused by Mrs. Weasley's charm, Harry caught a glimpse of what
looked like the plan of a building.
Mrs. Weasley had seen him looking. She snatched the plan off the
table and stuffed it into Bill's heavily laden arms.
"This sort of thing ought to be cleared away promptly at the end of
meetings,” she snapped before sweeping off toward an ancient dresser
from which she started unloading dinner plates.
Bill took out his wand, muttered "Evanesco!" and the scrolls
vanished.
"Sit down, Harry," said Sirius. "You've met Mundungus, haven't
you?"
* 80 *
THE ORDER OF
THE
PHOENIX
The thing Harry had taken to be a pile of rags gave a prolonged,
grunting snore and then jerked awake.
"Some'n say m' name?" Mundungus mumbled sleepily. "I 'gree
with Sirius. .
"
He raised a very grubby hand in the air as though voting, his
droopy, bloodshot eyes unfocused. Ginny giggled.
"The meeting's over, Dung,” said Sirius, as they all sat down
around him at the table. “Harry's arrived."
"Eh?" said Mundungus, peering balefully at Harry through his
matted ginger hair. “Blimey, so 'e 'as. Yeah . . . you all right, 'arry?"
"Yeah," said Harry.
Mundungus fumbled nervously in his pockets, still staring at
Harry, and pulled out a grimy black pipe. He stuck it in his mouth,
ignited the end of it with his wand, and took a deep pull on it. Great
billowing clouds of greenish smoke obscured him in seconds.
"Owe you a 'pology," grunted a voice from the middle of the smelly
cloud.
"For the last time, Mundungus," called Mrs. Weasley, "will you
please not smoke that thing in the kitchen, especially not when we're
about to eat!”
"Ah," said Mundungus. “Right. Sorry, Molly."
The cloud of smoke vanished as Mundungus stowed his pipe back
in his pocket, but an acrid smell of burning socks lingered.
"And if you want dinner before midnight I'll need a hand," Mrs.
Weasley said to the room at large. “No, you can stay where you are,
Harry dear, you've had a long journey
"
"What can I do, Molly?" said Tonks enthusiastically, bounding for-
ward.
Mrs. Weasley hesitated, looking apprehensive.
"Er
-
no, it's all right, Tonks, you have a rest too, you've done
enough today
"
"No, no, I want to help!" said Tonks brightly, knocking over a chair
* 81 *
CHAPTER FIVE
as she hurried toward the dresser from which Ginny was collecting
cutlery.
Soon a series of heavy knives were chopping meat and vegetables of
their own accord, supervised by Mr. Weasley, while Mrs. Weasley
stirred a cauldron dangling over the fire and the others took out plates,
more goblets, and food from the pantry. Harry was left at the table
with Sirius and Mundungus, who was still blinking mournfully at
him.
"Seen old Figgy since?” he asked.
"No," said Harry, "I haven't seen anyone."
"See, I wouldn't 'ave left," said Mundungus, leaning forward, a
pleading note in his voice, “but I 'ad a business opportunity
"
Harry felt something brush against his knees and started, but it was
only Crookshanks, Hermione's bandy-legged ginger cat, who wound
himself once around Harry's legs, purring, then jumped onto Sirius's
lap and curled up. Sirius scratched him absentmindedly behind the
ears as he turned, still grim-faced, to Harry.
"Had a good summer so far?”
"No, it's been lousy,” said Harry.
For the first time, something like a grin flitted across Sirius's face.
"Don't know what you're complaining about, myself."
"What?" said Harry incredulously.
"Personally, I'd have welcomed a dementor attack. A deadly strug-
gle for my soul would have broken the monotony nicely. You think
you've had it bad, at least you've been able to get out and about,
stretch your legs, get into a few fights. . . . I've been stuck inside for a
month."
"How come?" asked Harry, frowning.
"Because the Ministry of Magic's still after me, and Voldemort will
know all about me being an Animagus by now, Wormtail will have
told him, so my big disguise is useless. There's not much I can do for
the Order of the Phoenix. . . or so Dumbledore feels."
* 82 *
THE ORDER OF
THE
PHOENIX
There was something about the slightly flattened tone of voice in
which Sirius uttered Dumbledore's name that told Harry that Sirius
was not very happy with the headmaster either. Harry felt a sudden
upsurge of affection for his godfather.
"At least you've known what's been going on,” he said bracingly.
"Oh yeah,” said Sirius sarcastically. “Listening to Snape's reports,
having to take all his snide hints that he's out there risking his life
while I'm sat on my backside here having a nice comfortable time . . .
asking me how the cleaning's going-
"What cleaning?" asked Harry.
"
"Trying to make this place fit for human habitation," said Sirius,
waving a hand around the dismal kitchen. “No one's lived here for
ten years, not since my dear mother died, unless you count her old
house-elf, and he's gone round the twist, hasn't cleaned anything in
ages
دو
"Sirius?" said Mundungus, who did not appear to have paid any
attention to this conversation, but had been minutely examining an
empty goblet. "This solid silver, mate?"
"Yes," said Sirius, surveying it with distaste. "Finest fifteenth-
century goblin-wrought silver, embossed with the Black family crest."
“That'd come off, though,” muttered Mundungus, polishing it
with his cuff.
"Fred
shrieked.
-
George
-
NO, JUST CARRY THEM!" Mrs. Weasley
Harry, Sirius, and Mundungus looked around and, a split second
later, dived away from the table. Fred and George had bewitched a
large cauldron of stew, an iron flagon of butterbeer, and a heavy
wooden breadboard, complete with knife, to hurtle through the air
toward them. The stew skidded the length of the table and came to a
halt just before the end, leaving a long black burn on the wooden sur-
face, the flagon of butterbeer fell with a crash, spilling its contents
everywhere, and the bread knife slipped off the board and landed,
* 83 *
CHAPTER FIVE
point down and quivering ominously, exactly where Sirius's right
hand had been seconds before.
"FOR HEAVEN'S SAKE!" screamed Mrs. Weasley. "THERE
WAS NO NEED - I'VE HAD ENOUGH OF THIS - JUST BE-
CAUSE YOU'RE ALLOWED TO USE MAGIC NOW YOU
DON'T HAVE TO WHIP YOUR WANDS OUT FOR EVERY
TINY LITTLE THING!"
"We were just trying to save a bit of time!" said Fred, hurrying for-
ward and wrenching the bread knife out of the table. “Sorry Sirius,
mate didn't mean to
-
دو
Harry and Sirius were both laughing. Mundungus, who had top-
pled backward off his chair, was swearing as he got to his feet. Crook-
shanks had given an angry hiss and shot off under the dresser, from
whence his large yellow eyes glowed in the darkness.
"Boys," Mr. Weasley said, lifting the stew back into the middle of
the table, "your mother's right, you're supposed to show a sense of re-
sponsibility now you've come of age
«
دو
none of your brothers caused this sort of trouble!" Mrs.
Weasley raged at the twins, slamming a fresh flagon of butterbeer onto
the table and spilling almost as much again. “Bill didn't feel the need
to Apparate every few feet! Charlie didn't Charm everything he met!
Percy —"
She stopped dead, catching her breath with a frightened look at her
husband, whose expression was suddenly wooden.
"Let's eat," said Bill quickly.
“It looks wonderful, Molly," said Lupin, ladling stew onto a plate
for her and handing it across the table.
For a few minutes there was silence but for the chink of plates and
cutlery and the scraping of chairs as everyone settled down to their
food. Then Mrs. Weasley turned to Sirius and said, “I've been mean-
ing to tell you, there's something trapped in that writing desk in the
drawing room, it keeps rattling and shaking. Of course, it could just
* 84 *
