was eight. Great Uncle Algie came round for dinner, and he was hanging me out
of an upstairs window by the ankles when my Great Auntie Enid offered him a
meringue and he accidentally let go. But I bounced all the way down the
garden and into the road. They were all really pleased, Gran was crying, she was
so happy. And you should have seen their faces when I got in here they
thought I might not be magic enough to come, you see. Great Uncle Algie was
so pleased he bought me my toad."
On Harry's other side, Percy Weasley and Hermione were talking about
lessons ("I do hope they start right away, there's so much to learn, I'm
particularly interested in Transfiguration, you know, turning something into
something else, of course, it's supposed to be very difficult —”; “You'll be
starting small, just matches into needles and that sort of thing —”).
Harry, who was starting to feel warm and sleepy, looked up at the High
Table again. Hagrid was drinking deeply from his goblet. Professor McGonagall
was talking to Professor Dumbledore. Professor Quirrell, in his absurd turban,
was talking to a teacher with greasy black hair, a hooked nose, and sallow skin.
It happened very suddenly. The hook-nosed teacher looked past
Quirrell's turban straight into Harry's eyes and a sharp, hot pain shot across
the scar on Harry's forehead.
-
"Ouch!" Harry clapped a hand to his head.
"What is it?" asked Percy.
"N-nothing."
The pain had gone as quickly as it had come. Harder to shake off was the
feeling Harry had gotten from the teacher's look a feeling that he didn't like
Harry at all.
"Who's that teacher talking to Professor Quirrell?” he asked Percy.
"Oh, you know Quirrell already, do you? No wonder he's looking so
nervous, that's Professor Snape. He teaches Potions, but he doesn't want to
everyone knows he's after Quirrell's job. Knows an awful lot about the Dark
Arts, Snape."
Harry watched Snape for a while, but Snape didn't look at him again.
At last, the desserts too disappeared, and Professor Dumbledore got to
his feet again. The hall fell silent.
66
'Ahem
-
just a few more words now that we are all fed and watered. I
have a few start-of-term notices to give you.
"First years should note that the forest on the grounds is forbidden to all
pupils. And a few of our older students would do well to remember that as well."
Dumbledore's twinkling eyes flashed in the direction of the Weasley
twins.
"I have also been asked by Mr. Filch, the caretaker, to remind you all that
no magic should be used between classes in the corridors.
"Quidditch trials will be held in the second week of the term. Anyone
interested in playing for their house teams should contact Madam Hooch.
"And finally, I must tell you that this year, the third-floor corridor on the
right-hand side is out of bounds to everyone who does not wish to die a very
painful death.”
Harry laughed, but he was one of the few who did.
"He's not serious?" he muttered to Percy.
-
"Must be," said Percy, frowning at Dumbledore. “It's odd, because he
usually gives us a reason why we're not allowed to go somewhere - the forest's
full of dangerous beasts, everyone knows that. I do think he might have told us
prefects, at least."
"And now, before we go to bed, let us sing the school song!” cried
Dumbledore. Harry noticed that the other teachers' smiles had become rather
fixed.
Dumbledore gave his wand a little flick, as if he was trying to get a fly
off the end, and a long golden ribbon flew out of it, which rose high above the
tables and twisted itself, snakelike, into words.
"Everyone pick their favorite tune,” said Dumbledore, “and off we go!"
And the school bellowed:
"Hogwarts, Hogwarts, Hoggy Warty Hogwarts,
Teach us something please,
Whether we be old and bald
Or young with scabby knees,
Our heads could do with filling
With some interesting stuff,
For now they're bare and full of air,
Dead flies and bits of fluff,
So teach us things worth knowing,
Bring back what we've forgot,
just do your best, we'll do the rest,
And learn until our brains all rot."
Everybody finished the song at different times. At last, only the Weasley
twins were left singing along to a very slow funeral march. Dumbledore
conducted their last few lines with his wand and when they had finished, he was
one of those who clapped loudest.
"Ah, music," he said, wiping his eyes. "A magic beyond all we do here!
And now, bedtime. Off you trot!"
The Gryffindor first years followed Percy through the chattering crowds,
out of the Great Hall, and up the marble staircase. Harry's legs were like lead
again, but only because he was so tired and full of food. He was too sleepy even
to be surprised that the people in the portraits along the corridors whispered and
pointed as they passed, or that twice Percy led them through doorways hidden
behind sliding panels and hanging tapestries. They climbed more staircases,
yawning and dragging their feet, and Harry was just wondering how much
farther they had to go when they came to a sudden halt.
A bundle of walking sticks was floating in midair ahead of them, and as
Percy took a step toward them they started throwing themselves at him.
"Peeves," Percy whispered to the first years. "A poltergeist." He raised
his voice, "Peeves-show yourself."
A loud, rude sound, like the air being let out of a balloon, answered.
"Do you want me to go to the Bloody Baron?"
There was a pop, and a little man with wicked, dark eyes and a wide
mouth appeared, floating cross-legged in the air, clutching the walking sticks.
"Oooooooh!" he said, with an evil cackle. "Ickle Firsties! What fun!"
He swooped suddenly at them. They all ducked.
Percy.
"Go away, Peeves, or the Baron'll hear about this, I mean it!” barked
Peeves stuck out his tongue and vanished, dropping the walking sticks on
Neville's head. They heard him zooming away, rattling coats of armor as he
passed.
"You want to watch out for Peeves," said Percy, as they set off again.
"The Bloody Baron's the only one who can control him, he won't even listen to
us prefects. Here we are."
At the very end of the corridor hung a portrait of a very fat woman in a
pink silk dress.
"Password?" she said.
"Caput Draconis," said Percy, and the portrait swung forward to reveal a
round hole in the wall. They all scrambled through it - Neville needed a leg up
and found themselves in the Gryffindor common room, a cozy, round room
full of squashy armchairs.
-
Percy directed the girls through one door to their dormitory and the boys
through another. At the top of a spiral staircase they were obviously in one of
the towers they found their beds at last: five four-posters hung with deep red,
velvet curtains. Their trunks had already been brought up. Too tired to talk
much, they pulled on their pajamas and fell into bed.
-
"Great food, isn't it?" Ron muttered to Harry through the hangings. "Get
off, Scabbers! He's chewing my sheets."
Harry was going to ask Ron if he'd had any of the treacle tart, but he fell
asleep almost at once.
Perhaps Harry had eaten a bit too much, because he had a very strange
dream. He was wearing Professor Quirrell's turban, which kept talking to him,
telling him he must transfer to Slytherin at once, because it was his destiny.
Harry told the turban he didn't want to be in Slytherin; it got heavier and
heavier; he tried to pull it off but it tightened painfully - and there was Malfoy,
laughing at him as he struggled with it then Malfoy turned into the hook-
nosed teacher, Snape, whose laugh became high and cold - there was a burst of
green light and Harry woke, sweating and shaking.
-
—
He rolled over and fell asleep again, and when he woke next day, he
didn't remember the dream at all.
HP 1 - Harry Potter and the
Sorcerer's Stone
CHAPTER EIGHT
THE POTIONS MASTER
T here, look.”
"Where?"
"Next to the tall kid with the red hair."
"Wearing the glasses?"
"Did you see his face?"
"Did you see his scar?”
Whispers followed Harry from the moment he left his dormitory the next
day. People lining up outside classrooms stood on tiptoe to get a look at him, or
doubled back to pass him in the corridors again, staring. Harry wished they
wouldn't, because he was trying to concentrate on finding his way to classes.
There were a hundred and forty-two staircases at Hogwarts: wide,
sweeping ones; narrow, rickety ones; some that led somewhere different on a
Friday; some with a vanishing step halfway up that you had to remember to
jump. Then there were doors that wouldn't open unless you asked politely, or
tickled them in exactly the right place, and doors that weren't really doors at all,
but solid walls just pretending. It was also very hard to remember where
anything was, because it all seemed to move around a lot. The people in the
portraits kept going to visit each other, and Harry was sure the coats of armor
could walk.
The ghosts didn't help, either. It was always a nasty shock when one of
them glided suddenly through a door you were trying to open. Nearly Headless
Nick was always happy to point new Gryffindors in the right direction, but
Peeves the Poltergeist was worth two locked doors and a trick staircase if you
met him when you were late for class. He would drop wastepaper baskets on
your head, pull rugs from under your feet, pelt you with bits of chalk, or sneak
up behind you, invisible, grab your nose, and screech, "GOT YOUR CONK!"
Even worse than Peeves, if that was possible, was the caretaker, Argus
Filch. Harry and Ron managed to get on the wrong side of him on their very first
morning. Filch found them trying to force their way through a door that
unluckily turned out to be the entrance to the out-of-bounds corridor on the third
floor. He wouldn't believe they were lost, was sure they were trying to break into
it on purpose, and was threatening to lock them in the dungeons when they were
rescued by Professor Quirrell, who was passing.
Filch owned a cat called Mrs. Norris, a scrawny, dust-colored creature
with bulging, lamp like eyes just like Filch's. She patrolled the corridors alone.
Break a rule in front of her, put just one toe out of line, and she'd whisk off for
Filch, who'd appear, wheezing, two seconds later. Filch knew the secret
passageways of the school better than anyone (except perhaps the Weasley
twins) and could pop up as suddenly as any of the ghosts. The students all hated
him, and it was the dearest ambition of many to give Mrs. Norris a good kick.
And then, once you had managed to find them, there were the classes
themselves. There was a lot more to magic, as Harry quickly found out, than
waving your wand and saying a few funny words.
They had to study the night skies through their telescopes every
Wednesday at midnight and learn the names of different stars and the movements
of the planets. Three times a week they went out to the greenhouses behind the
castle to study Herbology, with a dumpy little witch called Professor Sprout,
where they learned how to take care of all the strange plants and fungi, and
found out what they were used for. Easily the most boring class was History of
Magic, which was the only one taught by a ghost. Professor Binns had been very
old indeed when he had fallen asleep in front of the staff room fire and got up
next morning to teach, leaving his body behind him. Binns droned on and on
while they scribbled down names and dates, and got Emetic the Evil and Uric
the Oddball mixed up.
Professor Flitwick, the Charms teacher, was a tiny little wizard who had
to stand on a pile of books to see over his desk. At the start of their first class he
took the roll call, and when he reached Harry's name he gave an excited squeak
and toppled out of sight.
Professor McGonagall was again different. Harry had been quite right to
think she wasn't a teacher to cross. Strict and clever, she gave them a talking-to
the moment they sat down in her first class.
"Transfiguration is some of the most complex and dangerous magic you
will learn at Hogwarts," she said. "Anyone messing around in my class will
leave and not come back. You have been warned."
Then she changed her desk into a pig and back again. They were all very
impressed and couldn't wait to get started, but soon realized they weren't going
to be changing the furniture into animals for a long time. After taking a lot of
complicated notes, they were each given a match and started trying to turn it into
a needle. By the end of the lesson, only Hermione Granger had made any
difference to her match; Professor McGonagall showed the class how it had gone
all silver and pointy and gave Hermione a rare smile.
The class everyone had really been looking forward to was Defense
Against the Dark Arts, but Quirrell's lessons turned out to be a bit of a joke. His
classroom smelled strongly of garlic, which everyone said was to ward off a
vampire he'd met in Romania and was afraid would be coming back to get him
one of these days. His turban, he told them, had been given to him by an African
prince as a thank-you for getting rid of a troublesome zombie, but they weren't
sure they believed this story. For one thing, when Seamus Finnigan asked
eagerly to hear how Quirrell had fought off the zombie, Quirrell went pink and
started talking about the weather; for another, they had noticed that a funny smell
hung around the turban, and the Weasley twins insisted that it was stuffed full of
garlic as well, so that Quirrell was protected wherever he went.
Harry was very relieved to find out that he wasn't miles behind everyone
else. Lots of people had come from Muggle families and, like him, hadn't had
any idea that they were witches and wizards. There was so much to learn that
even people like Ron didn't have much of a head start.
Friday was an important day for Harry and Ron. They finally managed to
find their way down to the Great Hall for breakfast without getting lost once.
"What have we got today?” Harry asked Ron as he poured sugar on his
porridge.
"Double Potions with the Slytherins," said Ron. "Snape's Head of
Slytherin House. They say he always favors them we'll be able to see if it's
true."
-
"Wish McGonagall favored us," said Harry. Professor McGonagall was
head of Gryffindor House, but it hadn't stopped her from giving them a huge pile
of homework the day before.
Just then, the mail arrived. Harry had gotten used to this by now, but it
had given him a bit of a shock on the first morning, when about a hundred owls
had suddenly streamed into the Great Hall during breakfast, circling the tables
until they saw their owners, and dropping letters and packages onto their laps.
Hedwig hadn't brought Harry anything so far. She sometimes flew in to
nibble his ear and have a bit of toast before going off to sleep in the owlery with
the other school owls. This morning, however, she fluttered down between the
marmalade and the sugar bowl and dropped a note onto Harry's plate. Harry tore
it open at once. It said, in a very untidy scrawl:
Dear Harry,
I know you get Friday afternoons off, so would you like to come and have a
cup of tea with me around three?
I want to hear all about your first week. Send us an answer back with
Hedwig.
Hagrid
Harry borrowed Ron's quill, scribbled Yes, please, see you later on the back
of the note, and sent Hedwig off again.
It was lucky that Harry had tea with Hagrid to look forward to, because
the Potions lesson turned out to be the worst thing that had happened to him so
far.
At the start-of-term banquet, Harry had gotten the idea that Professor
Snape disliked him. By the end of the first Potions lesson, he knew he'd been
wrong. Snape didn't dislike Harry — he hated him.
-
Potions lessons took place down in one of the dungeons. It was colder
here than up in the main castle, and would have been quite creepy enough
without the pickled animals floating in glass jars all around the walls.
Snape, like Flitwick, started the class by taking the roll call, and like
Flitwick, he paused at Harry's name.
"Ah, Yes," he said softly, “Harry Potter. Our new ― celebrity."
Draco Malfoy and his friends Crabbe and Goyle sniggered behind their
hands. Snape finished calling the names and looked up at the class. His eyes
were black like Hagrid's, but they had none of Hagrid's warmth. They were cold
and empty and made you think of dark tunnels.
“You are here to learn the subtle science and exact art of potionmaking,"
he began. He spoke in barely more than a whisper, but they caught every word
― like Professor McGonagall, Snape had the gift of keeping a class silent
without effort. "As there is little foolish wand-waving here, many of you will
hardly believe this is magic. I don't expect you will really understand the beauty
of the softly simmering cauldron with its shimmering fumes, the delicate power
of liquids that creep through human veins, bewitching the mind, ensnaring the
senses....I can teach you how to bottle fame, brew glory, even stopper death
if you aren't as big a bunch of dunderheads as I usually have to teach."
More silence followed this little speech. Harry and Ron exchanged looks
with raised eyebrows. Hermione Granger was on the edge of her seat and looked
desperate to start proving that she wasn't a dunderhead.
"Potter!" said Snape suddenly. "What would I get if I added powdered
root of asphodel to an infusion of wormwood?"
Powdered root of what to an infusion of what? Harry glanced at Ron,
who looked as stumped as he was; Hermione's hand had shot into the air.
"I don't know, sir," said Harry.
Snape's lips curled into a sneer.
"Tut, tut fame clearly isn't everything.'
He ignored Hermione's hand.
bezoar?"
دو
"Let's try again. Potter, where would you look if I told you to find me a
Hermione stretched her hand as high into the air as it would go without
her leaving her seat, but Harry didn't have the faintest idea what a bezoar was.
He tried not to look at Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle, who were shaking with
laughter.
"I don't know, sir."
"Thought you wouldn't open a book before coming, eh, Potter?” Harry
forced himself to keep looking straight into those cold eyes. He had looked.
through his books at the Dursleys', but did Snape expect him to remember
everything in One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi?
ceiling.
Snape was still ignoring Hermione's quivering hand.
"What is the difference, Potter, between monkshood and wolfsbane?"
At this, Hermione stood up, her hand stretching toward the dungeon
"I don't know," said Harry quietly. “I think Hermione does, though, why
don't you try her?”
A few people laughed; Harry caught Seamus's eye, and Seamus winked.
Snape, however, was not pleased.
"Sit down," he snapped at Hermione. "For your information, Potter,
asphodel and wormwood make a sleeping potion so powerful it is known as the
Draught of Living Death. A bezoar is a stone taken from the stomach of a goat
and it will save you from most poisons. As for monkshood and wolfsbane, they
are the same plant, which also goes by the name of aconite. Well? Why aren't
you all copying that down?"
There was a sudden rummaging for quills and parchment. Over the noise,
Snape said, "And a point will be taken from Gryffindor House for your cheek,
Potter."
Things didn't improve for the Gryffindors as the Potions lesson
continued. Snape put them all into pairs and set them to mixing up a simple
potion to cure boils. He swept around in his long black cloak, watching them
weigh dried nettles and crush snake fangs, criticizing almost everyone except
Malfoy, whom he seemed to like. He was just telling everyone to look at the
perfect way Malfoy had stewed his horned slugs when clouds of acid green
smoke and a loud hissing filled the dungeon. Neville had somehow managed to
melt Seamus's cauldron into a twisted blob, and their potion was seeping across
the stone floor, burning holes in people's shoes. Within seconds, the whole class
