"Well, you're expelling us, aren't you?” said Ron.
Harry looked quickly at Dumbledore.
"Not today, Mr. Weasley," said Dumbledore. "But I
“But
must impress upon both of you the seriousness of
what you have done. I will be writing to both your
families tonight. I must also warn you that if you do
anything like this again, I will have no choice but to
expel you."
Snape looked as though Christmas had been
canceled. He cleared his throat and said, "Professor
Dumbledore, these boys have flouted the Decree for
the Restriction of Underage Wizardry, caused serious
damage to an old and valuable tree
surely acts of
this nature
"
-
"It will be for Professor McGonagall to decide on these
boys' punishments, Severus," said Dumbledore
calmly. "They are in her House and are therefore her
responsibility." He turned to Professor McGonagall. “I
must go back to the feast, Minerva, I've got to give out
a few notices. Come, Severus, there's a delicious-
looking custard tart I want to sample
وو
Snape shot a look of pure venom at Harry and Ron as
he allowed himself to be swept out of his office,
leaving them alone with Professor McGonagall, who
was still eyeing them like a wrathful eagle.
“You'd better get along to the hospital wing, Weasley,
you're bleeding."
"Not much," said Ron, hastily wiping the cut over his
eye with his sleeve. "Professor, I wanted to watch my
sister being Sorted—”
-
Page 91 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
"The Sorting Ceremony is over," said Professor
McGonagall. "Your sister is also in Gryffindor."
"Oh, good,” said Ron.
وو
"And speaking of Gryffindor -" Professor McGonagall
said sharply, but Harry cut in: “Professor, when we
took the car, term hadn't started, so - so Gryffindor
shouldn't really have points taken from it — should
it?" he finished, watching her anxiously.
-
Professor McGonagall gave him a piercing look, but
he was sure she had almost smiled. Her mouth
looked less thin, anyway.
"I will not take any points from Gryffindor,” she said,
and Harry's heart lightened considerably. “But you
will both get a detention.”
It was better than Harry had expected. As for
Dumbledore's writing to the Dursleys, that was
nothing. Harry knew perfectly well they'd just be
disappointed that the Whomping Willow hadn't
squashed him flat.
Professor McGonagall raised her wand again and
pointed it at Snape's desk. A large plate of
sandwiches, two silver goblets, and a jug of iced
pumpkin juice appeared with a pop.
"You will eat in here and then go straight up to your
dormitory," she said. “I must also return to the feast.”
When the door had closed behind her, Ron let out a
long, low whistle.
"I thought we'd had it," he said, grabbing a sandwich.
"So did I," said Harry, taking one, too.
-
Page 92 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
"Can you believe our luck, though?” said Ron thickly
through a mouthful of chicken and ham. "Fred and
George must've flown that car five or six times and no
Muggle ever saw them." He swallowed and took
another huge bite. "Why couldn't we get through the
barrier?"
Harry shrugged. "We'll have to watch our step from
now on, though," he said, taking a grateful swig of
pumpkin juice. “Wish we could've gone up to the
feast...."
"She didn't want us showing off," said Ron sagely.
"Doesn't want people to think it's clever, arriving by
flying car."
When they had eaten as many sandwiches as they
could (the plate kept refilling itself), they rose and left
the office, treading the familiar path to Gryffindor
Tower. The castle was quiet; it seemed that the feast
was over. They walked past muttering portraits and
creaking suits of armor, and climbed narrow flights of
stone stairs, until at last they reached the passage
where the secret entrance to Gryffindor Tower was
hidden, behind an oil painting of a very fat woman in
a pink silk dress.
"Password?" she said as they approached.
"Er" said Harry.
They didn't know the new year's password, not having
met a Gryffindor prefect yet, but help came almost
immediately; they heard hurrying feet behind them
and turned to see Hermione dashing toward them.
"There you are! Where have you been? The most
ridiculous rumors — someone said you'd been
expelled for crashing a flying car —
"
Page 93 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling
"Well, we haven't been expelled," Harry assured her.
“You're not telling me you did fly here?” said
Hermione, sounding almost as severe as Professor
McGonagall.
"Skip the lecture," said Ron impatiently, “and tell us
the new password."
"It's 'wattlebird,'” said Hermione impatiently, “but
that's not the point
وو
Her words were cut short, however, as the portrait of
the fat lady swung open and there was a sudden
storm of clapping. It looked as though the whole of
Gryffindor House was still awake, packed into the
circular common room, standing on the lopsided
tables and squashy armchairs, waiting for them to
arrive. Arms reached through the portrait hole to pull
Harry and Ron inside, leaving Hermione to scramble
in after them.
“Brilliant!” yelled Lee Jordan. “Inspired! What an
entrance! Flying a car right into the Whomping
Willow, people'll be talking about that one for years
وو
"Good for you," said a fifth year Harry had never
spoken to; someone was patting him on the back as
though he'd just won a marathon; Fred and George
pushed their way to the front of the crowd and said
together, "Why couldn't we've come in the car, eh?"
Ron was scarlet in the face, grinning embarrassedly,
but Harry could see one person who didn't look happy
at all. Percy was visible over the heads of some
excited first years, and he seemed to be trying to get
near enough to start telling them off. Harry nudged
Ron in the ribs and nodded in Percy's direction. Ron
got the point at once.
Page 94 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
"Got to get upstairs.
-
bit tired,” he said, and the two
of them started pushing their way toward the door on
the other side of the room, which led to a spiral
staircase and the dormitories.
66
'Night," Harry called back to Hermione, who was
wearing a scowl just like Percy's.
They managed to get to the other side of the common
room, still having their backs slapped, and gained the
peace of the staircase. They hurried up it, right to the
top, and at last reached the door of their old
dormitory, which now had a sign on it saying
SECOND YEARS. They entered the familiar, circular
room, with its five four-posters hung with red velvet
and its high, narrow windows. Their trunks had been
brought up for them and stood at the ends of their
beds.
Ron grinned guiltily at Harry.
"I know I shouldn't've enjoyed that or anything, but
"
The dormitory door flew open and in came the other
second year Gryffindor boys, Seamus Finnigan, Dean
Thomas, and Neville Longbottom.
"Unbelievable!" beamed Seamus.
"Cool,” said Dean.
"Amazing," said Neville, awestruck.
Harry couldn't help it. He grinned, too.
Page 95 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling
PChapter 6
GILDEROY LOCKHART
The next day, however, Harry barely grinned once.
Things started to go downhill from breakfast in the
Great Hall. The four long House tables were laden
with tureens of porridge, plates of kippers, mountains
of toast, and dishes of eggs and bacon, beneath the
enchanted ceiling (today, a dull, cloudy gray). Harry
and Ron sat down at the Gryffindor table next to
Hermione, who had her copy of Voyages with
Vampires propped open against a milk jug. There was
a slight stiffness in the way she said “ 'Morning,"
which told Harry that she was still disapproving of the
way they had arrived. Neville Longbottom, on the
other hand, greeted them cheerfully. Neville was a
round-faced and accident-prone boy with the worst
memory of anyone Harry had ever met.
-
66
"Mail's due any minute I think Gran's sending a
few things I forgot."
Harry had only just started his porridge when, sure
enough, there was a rushing sound overhead and a
hundred or so owls streamed in, circling the hall and
Page 96 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
dropping letters and packages into the chattering
crowd. A big, lumpy package bounced off Neville's
head and, a second later, something large and gray
fell into Hermione's jug, spraying them all with milk
and feathers.
"Errol!" said Ron, pulling the bedraggled owl out by
the feet. Errol slumped, unconscious, onto the table,
his legs in the air and a damp red envelope in his
beak.
"Oh, no" Ron gasped.
"It's all right, he's still alive,” said Hermione, prodding
Errol gently with the tip of her finger.
"It's not that - it's that."
Ron was pointing at the red envelope. It looked quite
ordinary to Harry, but Ron and Neville were both
looking at it as though they expected it to explode.
"What's the matter?” said Harry.
"She's
-
she's sent me a Howler," said Ron faintly.
"You'd better open it, Ron,” said Neville in a timid
whisper. “It'll be worse if you don't. My gran sent me
one once, and I ignored it and" - - he gulped — “it was
horrible."
Harry looked from their petrified faces to the red
envelope.
"What's a Howler?" he said.
But Ron's whole attention was fixed on the letter,
which had begun to smoke at the corners.
Page 97 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling
"Open it," Neville urged. “It'll all be over in a few
minutes —
وو
Ron stretched out a shaking hand, eased the envelope
from Errol's beak, and slit it open. Neville stuffed his
fingers in his ears. A split second later, Harry knew
why. He thought for a moment it had exploded; a roar
of sound filled the huge hall, shaking dust from the
ceiling.
"STEALING THE CAR, I WOULDN'T HAVE BEEN
SURPRISED IF THEY'D EXPELLED YOU, YOU WAIT
TILL I GET HOLD OF YOU, I DON'T SUPPOSE YOU
STOPPED TO THINK WHAT YOUR FATHER AND I
WENT THROUGH WHEN WE SAW IT WAS GONE —
وو
Mrs. Weasley's yells, a hundred times louder than
usual, made the plates and spoons rattle on the table,
and echoed deafeningly off the stone walls. People
throughout the hall were swiveling around to see who
had received the Howler, and Ron sank so low in his
chair that only his crimson forehead could be seen.
66
"— LETTER FROM DUMBLEDORE LAST NIGHT, I
THOUGHT YOUR FATHER WOULD DIE OF SHAME,
WE DIDN'T BRING YOU UP TO BEHAVE LIKE THIS,
YOU AND HARRY COULD BOTH HAVE DIED —”
Harry had been wondering when his name was going
to crop up. He tried very hard to look as though he
couldn't hear the voice that was making his eardrums
throb.
66
"— ABSOLUTELY DISGUSTED — YOUR FATHER'S
FACING AN INQUIRY AT WORK, IT'S ENTIRELY YOUR
FAULT AND IF YOU PUT ANOTHER TOE OUT OF LINE
WE'LL BRING YOU STRAIGHT BACK HOME.”
Page 98 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling
A ringing silence fell. The red envelope, which had
dropped from Ron's hand, burst into flames and
curled into ashes. Harry and Ron sat stunned, as
though a tidal wave had just passed over them. A few
people laughed and, gradually, a babble of talk broke
out again.
Hermione closed Voyages with Vampires and looked
down at the top of Ron's head.
"Well, I don't know what you expected, Ron, but you
وو
"Don't tell me I deserved it," snapped Ron.
Harry pushed his porridge away. His insides were
burning with guilt. Mr. Weasley was facing an inquiry
at work. After all Mr. and Mrs. Weasley had done for
him over the summer ..
.
But he had no time to dwell on this; Professor
McGonagall was moving along the Gryffindor table,
handing out course schedules. Harry took his and
saw that they had double Herbology with the
Hufflepuffs first.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione left the castle together,
crossed the vegetable patch, and made for the
greenhouses, where the magical plants were kept. At
least the Howler had done one good thing: Hermione
seemed to think they had now been punished enough
and was being perfectly friendly again.
As they neared the greenhouses they saw the rest of
the class standing outside, waiting for Professor
Sprout. Harry, Ron, and Hermione had only just
joined them when she came striding into view across
the lawn, accompanied by Gilderoy Lockhart.
Professor Sprout's arms were full of bandages, and
Page 99 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling
with another twinge of guilt, Harry spotted the
Whomping Willow in the distance, several of its
branches now in slings.
Professor Sprout was a squat little witch who wore a
patched hat over her flyaway hair; there was usually
a large amount of earth on her clothes and her
fingernails would have made Aunt Petunia faint.
Gilderoy Lockhart, however, was immaculate in
sweeping robes of turquoise, his golden hair shining
under a perfectly positioned turquoise hat with gold
trimming.
“Oh, hello there!” he called, beaming around at the
assembled students. “Just been showing Professor
Sprout the right way to doctor a Whomping Willow!
But I don't want you running away with the idea that
I'm better at Herbology than she is! I just happen to
have met several of these exotic plants on my travels
...
"
“Greenhouse three today, chaps!" said Professor
Sprout, who was looking distinctly disgruntled, not at
all her usual cheerful self.
-
There was a murmur of interest. They had only ever
worked in greenhouse one before greenhouse three
housed far more interesting and dangerous plants.
Professor Sprout took a large key from her belt and
unlocked the door. Harry caught a whiff of damp
earth and fertilizer mingling with the heavy perfume
of some giant, umbrella-sized flowers dangling from
the ceiling. He was about to follow Ron and Hermione
inside when Lockhart's hand shot out.
"Harry! I've been wanting a word
-
you don't mind if
he's a couple of minutes late, do you, Professor
Sprout?"
-
Page | 100 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
