persuadable than I had expected. Harry's doing, of
course. Ah, hello, Nymphadora!"
Harry looked around and saw that Mrs. Weasley was
not alone, despite the lateness of the hour. A young
witch with a pale, heart-shaped face and mousy
brown hair was sitting at the table clutching a large
mug between her hands.
"Hello, Professor," she said. "Wotcher, Harry."
"Hi, Tonks."
Harry thought she looked drawn, even ill, and there
was something forced in her smile. Certainly her
appearance was less colorful than usual without her
customary shade of bubble-gum-pink hair.
"I'd better be off," she said quickly, standing up and
pulling her cloak around her shoulders. "Thanks for
the tea and sympathy, Molly."
"Please don't leave on my account,” said Dumbledore
courteously, “I cannot stay, I have urgent matters to
discuss with Rufus Scrimgeour."
“No, no, I need to get going,” said Tonks, not meeting
Dumbledore's eyes. " 'Night—”
"Dear, why not come to dinner at the weekend,
Remus and Mad-Eye are coming?"
"No, really, Molly
thanks anyway.
...
Good night,
everyone."
Tonks hurried past Dumbledore and Harry into the
yard; a few paces beyond the doorstep, she turned on
the spot and vanished into thin air. Harry noticed
that Mrs. Weasley looked troubled.
Page | 91
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling
"Well, I shall see you at Hogwarts, Harry,” said
Dumbledore. "Take care of yourself. Molly, your
servant.'
"
He made Mrs. Weasley a bow and followed Tonks,
vanishing at precisely the same spot. Mrs. Weasley
closed the door on the empty yard and then steered
Harry by the shoulders into the full glow of the
lantern on the table to examine his appearance.
"You're like Ron," she sighed, looking him up and
down. "Both of you look as though you've had
Stretching Jinxes put on you. I swear Ron's grown
four inches since I last bought him school robes. Are
you hungry, Harry?"
"Yeah, I am," said Harry, suddenly realizing just how
hungry he was.
"Sit down, dear, I'll knock something up."
As Harry sat down, a furry ginger cat with a squashed
face jumped onto his knees and settled there,
purring.
“So Hermione's here?” he asked happily as he tickled
Crookshanks behind the ears.
"Oh yes, she arrived the day before yesterday," said
Mrs. Weasley, rapping a large iron pot with her wand.
It bounced onto the stove with a loud clang and began
to bubble at once. "Everyone's in bed, of course, we
didn't expect you for hours. Here you are —”
وو
She tapped the pot again; it rose into the air, flew
toward Harry, and tipped over; Mrs. Weasley slid a
bowl neatly beneath it just in time to catch the
stream of thick, steaming onion soup.
Page 92 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling
“Bread, dear?”
"Thanks, Mrs. Weasley."
She waved her wand over her shoulder; a loaf of
bread and a knife soared gracefully onto the table; as
the loaf sliced itself and the soup pot dropped back
onto the stove, Mrs. Weasley sat down opposite him.
"So you persuaded Horace Slughorn to take the job?"
Harry nodded, his mouth so full of hot soup that he
could not speak.
"He taught Arthur and me," said Mrs. Weasley. "He
was at Hogwarts for ages, started around the same
time as Dumbledore, I think. Did you like him?"
His mouth now full of bread, Harry shrugged and
gave a noncommittal jerk of the head.
"I know what you mean," said Mrs. Weasley, nodding
wisely. "Of course he can be charming when he wants
to be, but Arthur's never liked him much. The
Ministry's littered with Slughorn's old favorites, he
was always good at giving leg ups, but he never had
much time for Arthur didn't seem to think he was
enough of a highflier. Well, that just shows you, even
Slughorn makes mistakes. I don't know whether
Ron's told you in any of his letters - it's only just
happened - but Arthur's been promoted!"
-
It could not have been clearer that Mrs. Weasley had
been bursting to say this.
Harry swallowed a large amount of very hot soup and
thought he could feel his throat blistering. “That's
great!" he gasped.
Page 93
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling
"You are sweet," beamed Mrs. Weasley, possibly
taking his watering eyes for emotion at the news.
"Yes, Rufus Scrimgeour has set up several new offices
in response to the present situation, and Arthur's
heading the Office for the Detection and Confiscation
of Counterfeit Defensive Spells and Protective Objects.
It's a big job, he's got ten people reporting to him
now!"
"What exactly — ?”
"Well, you see, in all the panic about You-Know-Who,
odd things have been cropping up for sale
-
everywhere, things that are supposed to guard
against You-know-Who and the Death Eaters. You
can imagine the kind of thing. so-called protective
potions that are really gravy with a bit of bubotuber
pus added, or instructions for defensive jinxes that
actually make your ears fall off. ... Well, in the main
the perpetrators are just people like Mundungus
Fletcher, who've never done an honest day's work in
their lives and are taking advantage of how frightened
everybody is, but every now and then something
really nasty turns up. The other day Arthur
confiscated a box of cursed Sneakoscopes that were
almost certainly planted by a Death Eater. So you
see, it's a very important job, and I tell him it's just
silly to miss dealing with spark plugs and toasters
and all the rest of that Muggle rubbish." Mrs. Weasley
ended her speech with a stern look, as if it had been
Harry suggesting that it was natural to miss spark
plugs.
"Is Mr. Weasley still at work?" Harry asked.
"Yes, he is. As a matter of fact, he's a tiny bit late.
He said he'd be back around midnight.
...
"
Page 94 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling
She turned to look at a large clock that was perched
awkwardly on top of a pile of sheets in the washing
basket at the end of the table. Harry recognized it at
once: It had nine hands, each inscribed with the
name of a family member, and usually hung on the
Weasleys' sitting room wall, though its current
position suggested that Mrs. Weasley had taken to
carrying it around the house with her. Every single
one of its nine hands was now pointing at "mortal
peril."
"It's been like that for a while now,” said Mrs.
Weasley, in an unconvincingly casual voice, “ever
since You-Know-Who came back into the open. I
suppose everybody's in mortal danger now. ... I don't
think it can be just our family ... but I don't know
anyone else who's got a clock like this, so I can't
check. Oh!"
With a sudden exclamation she pointed at the clock's
face. Mr. Weasley's hand had switched to "traveling."
"He's coming!"
And sure enough, a moment later there was a knock
on the back door. Mrs. Weasley jumped up and
hurried to it; with one hand on the doorknob and her
face pressed against the wood she called softly,
"Arthur, is that you?"
“Yes,” came Mr. Weasley's weary voice. "But I would
say that even if I were a Death Eater, dear. Ask the
question!"
"Oh, honestly ..."
"Molly!"
"All right, all right ... What is your dearest ambition?"
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling
Page 95
"To find out how airplanes stay up.'
"
Mrs. Weasley nodded and turned the doorknob, but
apparently Mr. Weasley was holding tight to it on the
other side, because the door remained firmly shut.
"Molly! I've got to ask you your question first!"
"Arthur, really, this is just silly.
...
وو
"What do you like me to call you when we're alone
together?"
Even by the dim light of the lantern Harry could tell
that Mrs. Weasley had turned bright red; he himself
felt suddenly warm around the ears and neck, and
hastily gulped soup, clattering his spoon as loudly as
he could against the bowl.
"Mollywobbles," whispered a mortified Mrs. Weasley
into the crack at the edge of the door.
"Correct," said Mr. Weasley. "Now you can let me in."
Mrs. Weasley opened the door to reveal her husband,
a thin, balding, red-haired wizard wearing horn-
rimmed spectacles and a long and dusty traveling
cloak.
"I still don't see why we have to go through that every
time you come home,” said Mrs. Weasley, still pink in
the face as she helped her husband out of his cloak.
"I mean, a Death Eater might have forced the answer
out of you before impersonating you!"
“I know, dear, but it's Ministry procedure, and I have
to set an example. Something smells good - onion
soup?"
Page 96 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling
Mr. Weasley turned hopefully in the direction of the
table.
"Harry! We didn't expect you until morning!"
They shook hands, and Mr. Weasley dropped into the
chair beside Harry as Mrs. Weasley set a bowl of soup
in front of him too.
"Thanks, Molly. It's been a tough night. Some idiot's
started selling Metamorph-Medals. Just sling them
around your neck and you'll be able to change your
appearance at will. A hundred thousand disguises, all
for ten Galleons!"
"And what really happens when you put them on?"
"Mostly you just turn a fairly unpleasant orange color,
but a couple of people have also sprouted tentaclelike
warts all over their bodies. As if St. Mungo's didn't
have enough to do already!"
"It sounds like the sort of thing Fred and George
would find funny," said Mrs. Weasley hesitantly. “Are
you sure ?"
-
“Of course I am!" said Mr. Weasley. "The boys
wouldn't do anything like that now, not when people
are desperate for protection!"
"So is that why you're late, Metamorph-Medals?"
"No, we got wind of a nasty backfiring jinx down in
Elephant and Castle, but luckily the Magical Law
Enforcement Squad had sorted it out by the time we
got there....
وو
Harry stifled a yawn behind his hand.
Page 97 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling
"Bed,” said an undeceived Mrs. Weasley at once. “I've
got Fred and George's room all ready for you, you'll
have it to yourself."
"Why, where are they?"
"Oh, they're in Diagon Alley, sleeping in the little flat
over their joke shop as they're so busy,” said Mrs.
Weasley. "I must say, I didn't approve at first, but
they do seem to have a bit of a flair for business!
Come on, dear, your trunk's already up there."
66
'Night, Mr. Weasley," said Harry, pushing back his
chair. Crookshanks leapt lightly from his lap and
slunk out of the room.
"G'night, Harry," said Mr. Weasley.
Harry saw Mrs. Weasley glance at the clock in the
washing basket as they left the kitchen. All the hands
were once again at "mortal peril."
Fred and George's bedroom was on the second floor.
Mrs. Weasley pointed her wand at a lamp on the
bedside table and it ignited at once, bathing the room
in a pleasant golden glow. Though a large vase of
flowers had been placed on a desk in front of the
small window, their perfume could not disguise the
lingering smell of what Harry thought was
gunpowder. A considerable amount of floor space was
devoted to a vast number of unmarked, sealed
cardboard boxes, amongst which stood Harry's school
trunk. The room looked as though it was being used
as a temporary warehouse.
Hedwig hooted happily at Harry from her perch on top
of a large wardrobe, then took off through the
window; Harry knew she had been waiting to see him
before going hunting. Harry bade Mrs. Weasley good.
Page 98 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling
night, put on pajamas, and got into one of the beds.
There was something hard inside the pillowcase. He
groped inside it and pulled out a sticky purple-and-
orange sweet, which he recognized as a Puking
Pastille. Smiling to himself, he rolled over and was
instantly asleep.
Seconds later, or so it seemed to Harry, he was
awakened by what sounded like cannon fire as the
door burst open. Sitting bolt upright, he heard the
rasp of the curtains being pulled back: The dazzling
sunlight seemed to poke him hard in both eyes.
Shielding them with one hand, he groped hopelessly
for his glasses with the other.
"Wuzzgoinon?"
"We didn't know you were here already!” said a loud
and excited voice, and he received a sharp blow to the
top of the head.
"Ron, don't hit him!" said a girl's voice reproachfully.
Harry's hand found his glasses and he shoved them
on, though the light was so bright he could hardly see
anyway. A long, looming shadow quivered in front of
him for a moment; he blinked and Ron Weasley came
into focus, grinning down at him.
"All right?"
“Never been better,” said Harry, rubbing the top of his
head and slumping back onto his pillows. "You?"
"Not bad,” said Ron, pulling over a cardboard box and
sitting on it. "When did you get here? Mum's only just
told us!"
"About one o'clock this morning."
Page 99 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince - J.K. Rowling
"Were the Muggles all right? Did they treat you okay?"
"Same as usual," said Harry, as Hermione perched
herself on the edge of his bed, "they didn't talk to me
much, but I like it better that way. How're you,
Hermione?"
"Oh, I'm fine," said Hermione, who was scrutinizing
Harry as though he was sickening for something. He
thought he knew what was behind this, and as he
had no wish to discuss Sirius's death or any other
miserable subject at the moment, he said, "What's the
time? Have I missed breakfast?”
"Don't worry about that, Mum's bringing you up a
tray; she reckons you look underfed," said Ron,
rolling his eyes. "So, what's been going on?"
"Nothing much, I've just been stuck at my aunt and
uncle's, haven't I?"
"Come off it!” said Ron. “You've been off with
Dumbledore!"
"It wasn't that exciting. He just wanted me to help
him persuade this old teacher to come out of
retirement. His name's Horace Slughorn."
"Oh," said Ron, looking disappointed. "We thought-
Hermione flashed a warning look at Ron, and Ron
changed tack at top speed.
66
"— we thought it'd be something like that."
"You did?" said Harry, amused.
وو
Page 100 Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling
-
