CHAPTER SEVEN
BAGMAN AND CROUCH
H
arry disentangled himself from Ron and got to his feet.
They had arrived on what appeared to be a deserted
stretch of misty moor. In front of them was a pair of tired and
grumpy-looking wizards, one of whom was holding a large gold
watch, the other a thick roll of parchment and a quill. Both were
dressed as Muggles, though very inexpertly: The man with the
watch wore a tweed suit with thigh-length galoshes; his colleague,
a kilt and a poncho.
"Morning, Basil," said Mr. Weasley, picking up the boot and
handing it to the kilted wizard, who threw it into a large box of
used Portkeys beside him; Harry could see an old newspaper, an
empty drinks can, and a punctured football.
"Hello there, Arthur,” said Basil wearily. “Not on duty, eh? It's all
right for some. ... We've been here all night. . . . You'd better get
out of the way, we've got a big party coming in from the Black For-
est at five-fifteen. Hang on, I'll find your campsite. . . . Weasley . . .
* 75 *
CHAPTER SEVEN
"
Weasley..." He consulted his parchment list. “About a quarter of
a mile's walk over there, first field you come to. Site manager's called
Mr. Roberts. Diggory second field . . . ask for Mr. Payne.'
"Thanks, Basil," said Mr. Weasley, and he beckoned everyone to
follow him.
They set off across the deserted moor, unable to make out much
through the mist. After about twenty minutes, a small stone cot-
tage next to a gate swam into view. Beyond it, Harry could just
make out the ghostly shapes of hundreds and hundreds of tents,
rising up the gentle slope of a large field toward a dark wood on the
horizon. They said good-bye to the Diggorys and approached the
cottage door.
A man was standing in the doorway, looking out at the tents.
Harry knew at a glance that this was the only real Muggle for sev-
eral acres. When he heard their footsteps, he turned his head to
look at them.
"Morning!" said Mr. Weasley brightly.
"Morning," said the Muggle.
"Would you be Mr. Roberts?"
"Aye, I would," said Mr. Roberts. "And who're you?"
"Weasley
-
two tents, booked a couple of days ago?"
"Aye," said Mr. Roberts, consulting a list tacked to the door.
"You've got a space up by the wood there. Just the one night?"
"That's it," said Mr. Weasley.
"You'll be paying now, then?" said Mr. Roberts.
"Ah - right
-
certainly -" said Mr. Weasley. He retreated a
short distance from the cottage and beckoned Harry toward him.
“Help me, Harry,” he muttered, pulling a roll of Muggle money
from his pocket and starting to peel the notes apart. “This one's
✶ 76⭑
BAGMAN AND
AND CROUCH
a
-
a
-
a ten? Ah I see the little number on it now.
this is a five?"
yes,
So
•
"A twenty," Harry corrected him in an undertone, uncomfort-
ably aware of Mr. Roberts trying to catch every word.
“Ah yes, so it is. . . . I don't know, these little bits of paper..."
"You foreign?" said Mr. Roberts as Mr. Weasley returned with
the correct notes.
"Foreign?" repeated Mr. Weasley, puzzled.
"You're not the first one who's had trouble with money," said
Mr. Roberts, scrutinizing Mr. Weasley closely. "I had two try and
pay me with great gold coins the size of hubcaps ten minutes ago."
"Did you really?" said Mr. Weasley nervously.
Mr. Roberts rummaged around in a tin for some change.
"Never been this crowded," he said suddenly, looking out over
the misty field again. "Hundreds of pre-bookings. People usually
just turn up...
دو
“Is that right?” said Mr. Weasley, his hand held out for his
change, but Mr. Roberts didn't give it to him.
"Aye," he said thoughtfully. "People from all over. Loads of for-
eigners. And not just foreigners. Weirdos, you know? There's a
bloke walking 'round in a kilt and a poncho."
"Shouldn't he?" said Mr. Weasley anxiously.
"
"It's like some sort of . . . I dunno . . . like some sort of rally,'
said Mr. Roberts. “They all seem to know each other. Like a big
party."
At that moment, a wizard in plus-fours appeared out of thin air
next to Mr. Roberts's front door.
"Obliviate!" he said sharply, pointing his wand at Mr. Roberts.
Instantly, Mr. Roberts's eyes slid out of focus, his brows
* 77✶
CHAPTER SEVEN
unknitted, and a look of dreamy unconcern fell over his face.
Harry recognized the symptoms of one who had just had his mem-
ory modified.
"A map of the campsite for you," Mr. Roberts said placidly to
Mr. Weasley. "And your change.”
"Thanks very much," said Mr. Weasley.
The wizard in plus-fours accompanied them toward the gate to
the campsite. He looked exhausted: His chin was blue with stubble
and there were deep purple shadows under his eyes. Once out of
earshot of Mr. Roberts, he muttered to Mr. Weasley, “Been having
a lot of trouble with him. Needs a Memory Charm ten times a day
to keep him happy. And Ludo Bagman's not helping. Trotting
around talking about Bludgers and Quaffles at the top of his voice,
not a worry about anti-Muggle security. Blimey, I'll be glad when
this is over. See you later, Arthur."
He Disapparated.
"I thought Mr. Bagman was Head of Magical Games and
Sports," said Ginny, looking surprised. "He should know better
than to talk about Bludgers near Muggles, shouldn't he?"
"He should," said Mr. Weasley, smiling, and leading them
through the gates into the campsite, "but Ludo's always been a
bit. . . well...
well . . . 
lax about security. You couldn't wish for a more
enthusiastic head of the sports department though. He played
Quidditch for England himself, you know. And he was the best
Beater the Wimbourne Wasps ever had."
They trudged up the misty field between long rows of tents.
Most looked almost ordinary; their owners had clearly tried to
make them as Muggle-like as possible, but had slipped up by
adding chimneys, or bellpulls, or weather vanes. However, here and
* 78⭑
BAGMAN AND CROUCH
there was a tent so obviously magical that Harry could hardly be
surprised that Mr. Roberts was getting suspicious. Halfway up
the
field stood an extravagant confection of striped silk like a miniature
palace, with several live peacocks tethered at the entrance. A little
farther on they passed a tent that had three floors and several tur-
rets; and a short way beyond that was a tent that had a front garden
attached, complete with birdbath, sundial, and fountain.
"Always the same," said Mr. Weasley, smiling. "We can't resist
showing off when we get together. Ah, here we are, look, this is us.'
"
They had reached the very edge of the wood at the top of the
field, and here was an empty space, with a small sign hammered into
the ground that read WEEZLY.
"Couldn't have a better spot!" said Mr. Weasley happily. "The
field is just on the other side of the wood there, we're as close as we
could be." He hoisted his backpack from his shoulders. "Right,” he
said excitedly, “no magic allowed, strictly speaking, not when we're
out in these numbers on Muggle land. We'll be putting these tents
up by hand! Shouldn't be too difficult. . . . Muggles do it all the
time. . . . Here, Harry, where do you reckon we should start?”
.
Harry had never been camping in his life; the Dursleys had
never taken him on any kind of holiday, preferring to leave him
with Mrs. Figg, an old neighbor. However, he and Hermione
worked out where most of the poles and pegs should
go, and
though Mr. Weasley was more of a hindrance than a help, because
he got thoroughly overexcited when it came to using the mallet,
they finally managed to erect a pair of shabby two-man tents.
All of them stood back to admire their handiwork. Nobody
looking at these tents would guess they belonged to wizards, Harry
thought, but the trouble was that once Bill, Charlie, and Percy
* 79 *
CHAPTER SEVEN
arrived, they would be a party of ten. Hermione seemed to have
spotted this problem too; she gave Harry a quizzical look as Mr.
Weasley dropped to his hands and knees and entered the first tent.
"We'll be a bit cramped," he called, "but I think we'll all squeeze
in. Come and have a look.”
Harry bent down, ducked under the tent flap, and felt his jaw
drop. He had walked into what looked like an old-fashioned,
three-room flat, complete with bathroom and kitchen. Oddly
enough, it was furnished in exactly the same sort of style as Mrs.
Figg's house: There were crocheted covers on the mismatched
chairs and a strong smell of cats.
"Well, it's not for long," said Mr. Weasley, mopping his bald
patch with a handkerchief and peering in at the four bunk beds
that stood in the bedroom. "I borrowed this from Perkins at the of-
fice. Doesn't camp much anymore, poor fellow, he's got lumbago.”
He picked up the dusty kettle and peered inside it. "We'll need
water.
دو
"There's a tap marked on this map the Muggle gave us," said
Ron, who had followed Harry inside the tent and seemed com-
pletely unimpressed by its extraordinary inner proportions. “It's on
the other side of the field."
-
دو
"Well, why don't you, Harry, and Hermione go and get us some
water then"
Mr. Weasley handed over the kettle and a couple of
saucepans "and the rest of us will get some wood for a fire?"
"But we've got an oven," said Ron. "Why can't we just
"Ron, anti-Muggle security!" said Mr. Weasley, his face shining
with anticipation. "When real Muggles camp, they cook on fires
outdoors. I've seen them at it!"
After a quick tour of the girls' tent, which was slightly smaller
*80*
BAGMAN AND CROUCH
than the boys', though without the smell of cats, Harry, Ron, and
Hermione set off across the campsite with the kettle and saucepans.
Now, with the sun newly risen and the mist lifting, they could
see the city of tents that stretched in every direction. They made
their way slowly through the rows, staring eagerly around. It was
only just dawning on Harry how many witches and wizards there
must be in the world; he had never really thought much about
those in other countries.
Their fellow campers were starting to wake up. First to stir were
the families with small children; Harry had never seen witches and
wizards this young before. A tiny boy no older than two was
crouched outside a large pyramid-shaped tent, holding a wand and
poking happily at a slug in the grass, which was swelling slowly to
the size of a salami. As they drew level with him, his mother came
hurrying out of the tent.
-
"How many times, Kevin? You don't touch
wand―yecchh!"
-
Daddy's
-
She had trodden on the giant slug, which burst. Her scolding
carried after them on the still air, mingling with the little boy's
yells
"You bust slug! You bust slug!"
A short way farther on, they saw two little witches, barely older
than Kevin, who were riding toy broomsticks that rose only high
enough for the girls' toes to skim the dewy grass. A Ministry wiz-
ard had already spotted them; as he hurried past Harry, Ron, and
Hermione he muttered distractedly, “In broad daylight! Parents
having a lie-in, I suppose —”
"
Here and there adult wizards and witches were emerging from
their tents and starting to cook breakfast. Some, with furtive looks
around them, conjured fires with their wands; others were striking
* 81 *
CHAPTER SEVEN
matches with dubious looks on their faces, as though sure this
couldn't work. Three African wizards sat in serious conversation, all
of them wearing long white robes and roasting what looked like
a rabbit on a bright purple fire, while a group of middle-aged
American witches sat gossiping happily beneath a spangled banner
stretched between their tents that read: THE SALEM WITCHES'
INSTITUTE. Harry caught snatches of conversation in strange lan-
guages from the inside of tents they passed, and though he couldn't
understand a word, the tone of every single voice was excited.
"Er is it my eyes, or has everything gone green?" said Ron.
-
It wasn't just Ron's eyes. They had walked into a patch of tents
that were all covered with a thick growth of shamrocks, so that it
looked as though small, oddly shaped hillocks had sprouted out of
the earth. Grinning faces could be seen under those that had their
flaps open. Then, from behind them, they heard their names.
"Harry! Ron! Hermione!”
It was Seamus Finnigan, their fellow Gryffindor fourth year. He
was sitting in front of his own shamrock-covered tent, with a
sandy-haired woman who had to be his mother, and his best friend,
Dean Thomas, also of Gryffindor.
"Like the decorations?" said Seamus, grinning. "The Ministry's
not too happy."
“Ah, why shouldn't we show our colors?" said Mrs. Finnigan.
"You should see what the Bulgarians have got dangling all over
their tents. You'll be supporting Ireland, of course?” she added, eye-
ing Harry, Ron, and Hermione beadily. When they had assured her
that they were indeed supporting Ireland, they set off again,
though, as Ron said, “Like we'd say anything else surrounded by
that lot."
*82*
BAGMAN AND CROUCH
"I wonder what the Bulgarians have got dangling all over their
tents?" said Hermione.
"Let's go and have a look,” said Harry, pointing to a large patch
of tents upheld, where the Bulgarian flag - white, green, and
red - was fluttering in the breeze.
-
The tents here had not been bedecked with plant life, but each
and every one of them had the same poster attached to it, a poster
of a very surly face with heavy black eyebrows. The picture was, of
course, moving, but all it did was blink and scowl.
"Krum," said Ron quietly.
"What?" said Hermione.
"Krum!" said Ron. "Viktor Krum, the Bulgarian Seeker!"
"He looks really grumpy," said Hermione, looking around at the
many Krums blinking and scowling at them.
"Really grumpy'?” Ron raised his eyes to the heavens. "Who cares
what he looks like? He's unbelievable. He's really young too. Only
just eighteen or something. He's a genius, you wait until tonight,
you'll see."
There was already a small queue for the tap in the corner of the
field. Harry, Ron, and Hermione joined it, right behind a pair of
men who were having a heated argument. One of them was a very
old wizard who was wearing a long flowery nightgown. The other
was clearly a Ministry wizard; he was holding out a pair of pin-
striped trousers and almost crying with exasperation.
"Just put them on, Archie, there's a good chap. You can't walk
around like that, the Muggle at the gate's already getting suspi-
cious
دو
"I bought this in a Muggle shop," said the old wizard stubbornly.
"Muggles wear them."
* 83 *
CHAPTER SEVEN
"Muggle women wear them, Archie, not the men, they wear
these,” said the Ministry wizard, and he brandished the pinstriped
trousers.
"I'm not putting them on," said old Archie in indignation. “I
like a healthy breeze 'round my privates, thanks."
Hermione was overcome with such a strong fit of the giggles at
this point that she had to duck out of the queue and only returned
when Archie had collected his water and moved away.
Walking more slowly now, because of the weight of the water,
they made their way back through the campsite. Here and there,
they saw more familiar faces: other Hogwarts students with their
families. Oliver Wood, the old captain of Harry's House Quidditch
team, who had just left Hogwarts, dragged Harry over to his par-
ents' tent to introduce him, and told him excitedly that he had just
been signed to the Puddlemere United reserve team. Next they
were hailed by Ernie Macmillan, a Hufflepuff fourth year, and a lit-
tle farther on they saw Cho Chang, a very pretty girl who played
Seeker on the Ravenclaw team. She waved and smiled at Harry,
who slopped quite a lot of water down his front as he waved back.
More to stop Ron from smirking than anything, Harry hurriedly
pointed out a large group of teenagers whom he had never seen
before.
"Who d'you reckon they are?" he said. "They don't go to Hog-
warts, do they?"
"Spect they go to some foreign school," said Ron. “I know there
are others. Never met anyone who went to one, though. Bill had a
penfriend at a school in Brazil. . . this was years and years ago . . .
and he wanted to go on an exchange trip but Mum and Dad couldn't
* 84 *
